In that budget planner here, I want to build a mobile-like looking application and I basically want
to have a header, some toolbar at the top which displays the title of the app,
something like budget planner
and then I want to have the main content below that toolbar where I essentially want to have an input
field where I can enter some titles, some names, some description of an expense and then also the value,
the amount of the expense,
have a button which I can press and then a list below of that where I basically output all my expenses
and at the very bottom of that and maybe a little sum where I see the total sum of the expenses.
Now for this if we have a look at the official docs, this ion-app and ion-content here is important,
ion-app should always wrap your entire Ionic app
and this basically just ensures that some general stylings and behaviors are set, so we can already do
that.
We can add ion-app in here and we only use this once per HTML file you could say or later if
you use Angular which all runs on one and the same single page, one HTML file, you only use it as a global
wrapper in your root component, you never use this anywhere else. In there,
we can have our ion-content and this is a wrapper to our main application content.
Now why would we add this?
Because for example this controls the scrolling and makes sure that our content generally just works
and is displayed correctly,
so let's add ion-content but I also wanted it to have a header.
So if you go back to the official docs and you scroll to the very bottom here on the left, you should find
that toolbar area and in the end, it is such a toolbar which I want to add.
Now as you can learn here, if a toolbar is placed in an ion-header, it will appear fixed at the top
of the content and that is exactly what I want.
So inside my ion-app above the ion-content, I'll add ion-header and in the ion-header, I'll add my
ion-toolbar.
Now in that toolbar, I want to have a title and indeed here, we see that ion-title and that is a component
that sets the title of a toolbar and we see a usage example here and I'm basically just rebuilding this
example now.
So inside of ion-toolbar, we can add ion-title and name this budget planner. If I now save this, let
me double-click that index.html file to just open it in the browser and we should see something
like this,
we have this nice header at the top with budget planner in here
and if we open the dev tools and we go to that mobile preview here by clicking this icon in the Chrome
dev tools, we see that this also looks good on mobile devices
if we simulate them. Now also interesting if we inspect an element here, we see that here for example
we have the ion-toolbar,
this is really rendered into the DOM, web components are a browser feature,
they're not emulated like Angular which in the end just gives us a syntax that spits out normal
HTML code,
this is normal HTML code now because the browser natively supports it
but here we also see what's inside of this toolbar for example, that under the hood a div gets rendered
and another div and so on.
So you can dive into this here as well,
that shadow root here simply is related to that shadow DOM concept I touched on earlier.
Again if you want to learn all about that, don't hesitate to dive into my full Web Component and Stencil
course but this is a good start.
Now we can of course not just add these elements, we can configure them as well
and therefore let's go back to the toolbar and I'm just showing you this because I want you to get into
the habit of using these docs because it's so important,
I of course know what we could configure there
but I want you to understand it as well.
So let's go to the docs and there to the toolbar and there we learn how we could add buttons,
something we'll also do later in the course to for example have a button that allows us to add a new
item and we see some general usage examples,
also with a back button which we'll later need, not right now
and if we scroll further down, we see the properties we can set
and I'm interested in that color property which we can set to primary, secondary and so on, to these base
colors which we can also overwrite and set our own colors of course
and that is also something we'll do later.
So let's go to the toolbar and add a color of primary maybe and if we do that, we save that and we go
back to our application and we reload,
we now simply have this blue background
but please also note that the title of color also adjusted, it's now white and the title of course is
a separate component.
So these components even work together here which is of course pretty cool.
So that is our header,
now what about the content?